---
layout: question
title:  "What is Hexadecimal?"
date:   2014-11-26 16:44:46
thumb: 75.png
author: Domhnall
categories:
- question
- design
- colour
- hex
---

### Overview
The system of number we commonly use for counting is known as decimal. It has 10 digits, ranging from 0-9. Using decimal has lots of advantages since it's easy to multiply and divide by 10, and we have 10 digits on our hands too so it's easy to count up in 10s. 
As the name implies, hexadecimal, or hex for short, has 16 digits, starting at 0 and going up to F; 0,1,2,3,4,5,6,7,8,9,A,B,C,D,E, and F. If you've ever tried counting higher than 10 using your hands you know that once you get as far as 11 you have to "start over", going back to the hand you started counting on and continuing from there. Counting in hex is like counting with 16 fingers, so rather than counting in multiples of 10, as we do in decimal, hexadecimal lets us count in multiples of 16 - allowing us to store more information in smaller space.

### Positional Notation
When you were learning maths in primary schools you were probably introduced to the idea of positional notation using words such as "Hundreds, Tens, and Ones" or "Hundreds, Tens, and Units". Depending on where the digit was determined its value, so numbers in the right column were ones, to the left of that were tens, to the left of that were hundreds and so on. Another way of expressing that would be 10^0, 10^1, 10^2 etc. If you consider this a bit more carefully, one decimal digit allows you to represent 10 different numbers, from 0 -9. Using two decimal digits allows you to represent any one of 100 different numbers, from 0 up to 99, and so on with each additional digit. With hex, one digit allows us to represent 16 possible different values - this is 60% more than decimal. With two digits there are 256 possible different combination (16 x 16) which is 156% more than using decimal. The amount of information that can be conveyed using hex rather than decimal continues to increase for each additional bit you use. 

### Red, Green and Blue
You may already know from physics that the primary colours of light are red, green and blue. Mixing all three will produce white light and the absence of any colour appears as black to our eyes.
When using hex to represent colour we use 6 bits of information. The first two bits are for the amount of red, the next two correspond the the amount green and the last two determine the amount of blue. So setting all three channels to their lowest levels, #000000, will appear black on you monitor. Similarly setting them all to their highest values, #ffffff, will produce white.

### How many colours?
Using 6 hexadecimal bits to create colours on a computer screen means that there are 256 possible red values, 256 possible greens and 256 possible blues. If we multiply all the different combinations together (256 x 256 x 256) we end up with over 16 million differnt colours: 16, 777, 216 to be precise! 

### See Also

RGB Colours